docs/source/deployment-guide/quick-start-recipe-for-gpt-oss-on-trtllm.md, before:

# Quick Start Recipe for GPT-OSS on TensorRT-LLM - Blackwell Hardware

## Introduction

This deployment guide provides step-by-step instructions for running the GPT-OSS model using TensorRT-LLM, optimized for NVIDIA GPUs. It covers the complete setup required; from accessing model weights and preparing the software environment to configuring TensorRT-LLM parameters, launching the server, and validating inference output.

The guide is intended for developers and practitioners seeking high-throughput or low-latency inference using NVIDIA’s accelerated stack—starting with the PyTorch container from NGC, then installing TensorRT-LLM for model serving.

## Prerequisites

* GPU: NVIDIA Blackwell Architecture
* OS: Linux
* Drivers: CUDA Driver 575 or Later
* Docker with NVIDIA Container Toolkit installed
* Python3 and python3-pip (Optional, for accuracy evaluation only)

## Models

* MXFP4 model: [GPT-OSS-120B](https://huggingface.co/openai/gpt-oss-120b)


## MoE Backend Support Matrix

There are multiple MOE backends inside TRT-LLM. Here are the support matrix of the MOE backends.

| Device     | Activation Type | MoE Weights Type | MoE Backend | Use Case       |
|------------|------------------|------------------|-------------|----------------|
| B200/GB200 | MXFP8            | MXFP4            | TRTLLM      | Low Latency    |
| B200/GB200 | MXFP8            | MXFP4            | CUTLASS     | Max Throughput |

The default moe backend is `CUTLASS`, so for the combination which is not supported by `CUTLASS`, one must set the `moe_config.backend` explicitly to run the model.

## Deployment Steps

### Run Docker Container

Run the docker container using the TensorRT-LLM NVIDIA NGC image.

```shell
docker run --rm -it \
--ipc=host \
--gpus all \
-p 8000:8000 \
-v ~/.cache:/root/.cache:rw \
--name tensorrt_llm \
nvcr.io/nvidia/tensorrt-llm/release:1.0.0rc6 \
/bin/bash
```

Note:

* The command mounts your user `.cache` directory to save the downloaded model checkpoints which are saved to `~/.cache/huggingface/hub/` by default. This prevents having to redownload the weights each time you rerun the container. If the `~/.cache` directory doesn’t exist please create it using `$ mkdir ~/.cache`.
* You can mount additional directories and paths using the `-v <host_path>:<container_path>` flag if needed, such as mounting the downloaded weight paths.
* The command also maps port `8000` from the container to your host so you can access the LLM API endpoint from your host
* See the <https://catalog.ngc.nvidia.com/orgs/nvidia/teams/tensorrt-llm/containers/release/tags> for all the available containers. The containers published in the main branch weekly have `rcN` suffix, while the monthly release with QA tests has no `rcN` suffix. Use the `rc` release to get the latest model and feature support.

If you want to use latest main branch, you can choose to build from source to install TensorRT-LLM, the steps refer to <https://nvidia.github.io/TensorRT-LLM/latest/installation/build-from-source-linux.html>.

### Creating the TRT-LLM Server config

We create a YAML configuration file `/tmp/config.yml` for the TensorRT-LLM Server and populate it with the following recommended performance settings.

For low-latency with `TRTLLM` MOE backend:

```shell
EXTRA_LLM_API_FILE=/tmp/config.yml

cat << EOF > ${EXTRA_LLM_API_FILE}
enable_attention_dp: false
cuda_graph_config:
  enable_padding: true
  max_batch_size: 128
moe_config:
    backend: TRTLLM
EOF
```

For max-throughput with `CUTLASS` MOE backend:

```shell
EXTRA_LLM_API_FILE=/tmp/config.yml

cat << EOF > ${EXTRA_LLM_API_FILE}
enable_attention_dp: true
cuda_graph_config:
  enable_padding: true
  max_batch_size: 128
moe_config:
    backend: CUTLASS
EOF
```

### Launch the TRT-LLM Server

Below is an example command to launch the TRT-LLM server with the GPT-OSS model from within the container. The command is specifically configured for the 1024/1024 Input/Output Sequence Length test. The explanation of each flag is shown in the “Configs and Parameters” section.

```shell
trtllm-serve openai/gpt-oss-120b \
    --host 0.0.0.0 \
    --port 8000 \
    --backend pytorch \
    --max_batch_size 128 \
    --max_num_tokens 16384 \
    --max_seq_len 2048 \
    --kv_cache_free_gpu_memory_fraction 0.9 \
    --tp_size 8 \
    --ep_size 8 \
    --trust_remote_code \
    --extra_llm_api_options ${EXTRA_LLM_API_FILE}
```

After the server is set up, the client can now send prompt requests to the server and receive results.

### Configs and Parameters

These options are used directly on the command line when you start the `trtllm-serve` process.

#### `--tp_size`

* **Description:** Sets the **tensor-parallel size**. This should typically match the number of GPUs you intend to use for a single model instance.

#### `--ep_size`

* **Description:** Sets the **expert-parallel size** for Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) models. Like `tp_size`, this should generally match the number of GPUs you're using. This setting has no effect on non-MoE models.

#### `--kv_cache_free_gpu_memory_fraction`

* **Description:** A value between `0.0` and `1.0` that specifies the fraction of free GPU memory to reserve for the KV cache after the model is loaded. Since memory usage can fluctuate, this buffer helps prevent out-of-memory (OOM) errors.
* **Recommendation:** If you experience OOM errors, try reducing this value to `0.7` or lower.

#### `--backend pytorch`

* **Description:** Tells TensorRT-LLM to use the **pytorch** backend.

#### `--max_batch_size`

* **Description:** The maximum number of user requests that can be grouped into a single batch for processing.

#### `--max_num_tokens`

* **Description:** The maximum total number of tokens (across all requests) allowed inside a single scheduled batch.

#### `--max_seq_len`

* **Description:** The maximum possible sequence length for a single request, including both input and generated output tokens.

#### `--trust_remote_code`

* **Description:** Allows TensorRT-LLM to download models and tokenizers from Hugging Face. This flag is passed directly to the Hugging Face API.


#### Extra LLM API Options (YAML Configuration)

These options provide finer control over performance and are set within a YAML file passed to the `trtllm-serve` command via the `--extra_llm_api_options` argument.

#### `cuda_graph_config`

* **Description**: A section for configuring CUDA graphs to optimize performance.

* **Options**:

  * `enable_padding`: If `"true"`, input batches are padded to the nearest `cuda_graph_batch_size`. This can significantly improve performance.

    **Default**: `false`

  * `max_batch_size`: Sets the maximum batch size for which a CUDA graph will be created.

    **Default**: `0`

    **Recommendation**: Set this to the same value as the `--max_batch_size` command-line option.

#### `moe_config`

* **Description**: Configuration for Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) models.

* **Options**:

  * `backend`: The backend to use for MoE operations.
    **Default**: `CUTLASS`

See the [`TorchLlmArgs` class](https://nvidia.github.io/TensorRT-LLM/llm-api/reference.html#tensorrt_llm.llmapi.TorchLlmArgs) for the full list of options which can be used in the `extra_llm_api_options`.

## Testing API Endpoint

### Basic Test

Start a new terminal on the host to test the TensorRT-LLM server you just launched.

You can query the health/readiness of the server using:

```shell
curl -s -o /dev/null -w "Status: %{http_code}\n" "http://localhost:8000/health"
```

When the `Status: 200` code is returned, the server is ready for queries. Note that the very first query may take longer due to initialization and compilation.

After the TRT-LLM server is set up and shows Application startup complete, you can send requests to the server.

```shell
curl http://localhost:8000/v1/chat/completions -H "Content-Type: application/json"  -d '{
    "model": "openai/gpt-oss-120b",
    "messages": [
        {
            "role": "user",
            "content": "Where is New York?"
        }
    ],
    "max_tokens": 1024,
    "top_p": 1.0
}' -w "\n"
```

Here is an example response, showing that the TRT-LLM server reasons and answers the questions.

TODO: Use Chat Compeletions API / Responses API as the example after the PR is merged.

```json
{"id":"chatcmpl-c5bf51b5cab94e10ba5da5266d12ee59","object":"chat.completion","created":1755815898,"model":"openai/gpt-oss-120b","choices":[{"index":0,"message":{"role":"assistant","content":"analysisThe user asks: \"Where is New York?\" Likely they want location info. Provide answer: New York State in northeastern US, New York City on the east coast, coordinates, etc. Provide context.assistantfinal**New York** can refer to two related places in the United States:\n\n| What it is | Where it is | Approx. coordinates | How to picture it |\n|------------|------------|--------------------|-------------------|\n| **New York State** | The northeastern corner of the United States, bordered by **Vermont, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and the Canadian provinces of Ontario and Quebec**. | 42.7° N, 75.5° W (roughly the state’s geographic centre) | A roughly rectangular state that stretches from the Atlantic Ocean in the southeast to the Adirondack Mountains and the Great Lakes region in the north. |\n| **New York City (NYC)** | The largest city in the state, located on the **southern tip of the state** where the **Hudson River meets the Atlantic Ocean**. It occupies five boroughs: Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, The Bronx, and Staten Island. | 40.7128° N, 74.0060° W | A dense, world‑famous metropolis that sits on a series of islands (Manhattan, Staten Island, parts of the Bronx) and the mainland (Brooklyn and Queens). |\n\n### Quick geographic context\n- **On a map of the United States:** New York State is in the **Northeast** region, just east of the Great Lakes and north of Pennsylvania.  \n- **From Washington, D.C.:** Travel roughly **225 mi (360 km) northeast**.  \n- **From Boston, MA:** Travel about **215 mi (350 km) southwest**.  \n- **From Toronto, Canada:** Travel about **500 mi (800 km) southeast**.\n\n### Travel tips\n- **By air:** Major airports include **John F. Kennedy International (JFK)**, **LaGuardia (LGA)**, and **Newark Liberty International (EWR)** (the latter is actually in New Jersey but serves the NYC metro area).  \n- **By train:** Amtrak’s **Northeast Corridor** runs from **Boston → New York City → Washington, D.C.**  \n- **By car:** Interstates **I‑87** (north‑south) and **I‑90** (east‑west) are the primary highways crossing the state.\n\n### Fun fact\n- The name “**New York**” was given by the English in 1664, honoring the Duke of York (later King James II). The city’s original Dutch name was **“New Amsterdam.”**\n\nIf you need more specific directions (e.g., how to get to a particular neighborhood, landmark, or the state capital **Albany**), just let me know!","reasoning_content":null,"tool_calls":[]},"logprobs":null,"finish_reason":"stop","stop_reason":null,"mm_embedding_handle":null,"disaggregated_params":null,"avg_decoded_tokens_per_iter":1.0}],"usage":{"prompt_tokens":72,"total_tokens":705,"completion_tokens":633},"prompt_token_ids":null}
```

### Troubleshooting Tips

* If you encounter CUDA out-of-memory errors, try reducing `max_batch_size` or `max_seq_len`.
* Ensure your model checkpoints are compatible with the expected format.
* For performance issues, check GPU utilization with nvidia-smi while the server is running.
* If the container fails to start, verify that the NVIDIA Container Toolkit is properly installed.
* For connection issues, make sure the server port (`8000` in this guide) is not being used by another application.

### Running Evaluations to Verify Accuracy (Optional)

We use OpenAI's official evaluation tool to test the model's accuracy. For more information see [https://github.com/openai/gpt-oss/tree/main/gpt_oss/evals](gpt-oss-eval).

TODO(@Binghan Chen): Add instructions for running gpt-oss-eval.

## Benchmarking Performance

To benchmark the performance of your TensorRT-LLM server you can leverage the built-in `benchmark_serving.py` script. To do this first creating a wrapper `bench.sh` script.

```shell
cat <<'EOF' > bench.sh
#!/usr/bin/env bash
set -euo pipefail

concurrency_list="32 64 128 256 512 1024 2048 4096"
multi_round=5
isl=1024
osl=1024
result_dir=/tmp/gpt_oss_output

for concurrency in ${concurrency_list}; do
    num_prompts=$((concurrency * multi_round))
    python -m tensorrt_llm.serve.scripts.benchmark_serving \
        --model openai/gpt-oss-120b \
        --backend openai \
        --dataset-name "random" \
        --random-input-len ${isl} \
        --random-output-len ${osl} \
        --random-prefix-len 0 \
        --random-ids \
        --num-prompts ${num_prompts} \
        --max-concurrency ${concurrency} \
        --ignore-eos \
        --tokenize-on-client \
        --percentile-metrics "ttft,tpot,itl,e2el"
done
EOF
chmod +x bench.sh
```

If you want to save the results to a file add the following options.

```shell
--save-result \
--result-dir "${result_dir}" \
--result-filename "concurrency_${concurrency}.json"
```

For more benchmarking options see <https://github.com/NVIDIA/TensorRT-LLM/blob/main/tensorrt\_llm/serve/scripts/benchmark\_serving.py>.

Run `bench.sh` to begin a serving benchmark. This will take a long time if you run all the concurrencies mentioned in the above `bench.sh` script.

```shell
./bench.sh
```

Sample TensorRT-LLM serving benchmark output. Your results may vary due to ongoing software optimizations.

```
============ Serving Benchmark Result ============
Successful requests:                      16
Benchmark duration (s):                   17.66
Total input tokens:                       16384
Total generated tokens:                   16384
Request throughput (req/s):               [result]
Output token throughput (tok/s):          [result]
Total Token throughput (tok/s):           [result]
User throughput (tok/s):                  [result]
---------------Time to First Token----------------
Mean TTFT (ms):                           [result]
Median TTFT (ms):                         [result]
P99 TTFT (ms):                            [result]
-----Time per Output Token (excl. 1st token)------
Mean TPOT (ms):                           [result]
Median TPOT (ms):                         [result]
P99 TPOT (ms):                            [result]
---------------Inter-token Latency----------------
Mean ITL (ms):                            [result]
Median ITL (ms):                          [result]
P99 ITL (ms):                             [result]
----------------End-to-end Latency----------------
Mean E2EL (ms):                           [result]
Median E2EL (ms):                         [result]
P99 E2EL (ms):                            [result]
==================================================
```

### Key Metrics

* Median Time to First Token (TTFT)
  * The typical time elapsed from when a request is sent until the first output token is generated.
* Median Time Per Output Token (TPOT)
  * The typical time required to generate each token *after* the first one.
* Median Inter-Token Latency (ITL)
  * The typical time delay between the completion of one token and the completion of the next.
* Median End-to-End Latency (E2EL)
  * The typical total time from when a request is submitted until the final token of the response is received.
* Total Token Throughput
  * The combined rate at which the system processes both input (prompt) tokens and output (generated) tokens.

Commit message:

[TRTLLM-7321][doc] Refine GPT-OSS doc (#7180)
Signed-off-by: Dongfeng Yu

docs/source/deployment-guide/quick-start-recipe-for-gpt-oss-on-trtllm.md, after:

# Quick Start Recipe for GPT-OSS on TensorRT-LLM - Blackwell Hardware

## Introduction

This deployment guide provides step-by-step instructions for running the GPT-OSS model using TensorRT-LLM, optimized for NVIDIA GPUs. It covers the complete setup required; from accessing model weights and preparing the software environment to configuring TensorRT-LLM parameters, launching the server, and validating inference output.

The guide is intended for developers and practitioners seeking high-throughput or low-latency inference using NVIDIA’s accelerated stack—starting with the PyTorch container from NGC, then installing TensorRT-LLM for model serving.

## Prerequisites

* GPU: NVIDIA Blackwell Architecture
* OS: Linux
* Drivers: CUDA Driver 575 or Later
* Docker with NVIDIA Container Toolkit installed
* Python3 and python3-pip (Optional, for accuracy evaluation only)

## Models

* MXFP4 model: [GPT-OSS-120B](https://huggingface.co/openai/gpt-oss-120b)


## MoE Backend Support Matrix

There are multiple MOE backends inside TRT-LLM. Here are the support matrix of the MOE backends.

| Device     | Activation Type | MoE Weights Type | MoE Backend | Use Case       |
|------------|------------------|------------------|-------------|----------------|
| B200/GB200 | MXFP8            | MXFP4            | TRTLLM      | Low Latency    |
| B200/GB200 | MXFP8            | MXFP4            | CUTLASS     | Max Throughput |

The default moe backend is `CUTLASS`, so for the combination which is not supported by `CUTLASS`, one must set the `moe_config.backend` explicitly to run the model.

## Deployment Steps

### Run Docker Container

Run the docker container using the TensorRT-LLM NVIDIA NGC image.

```shell
docker run --rm -it \
--ipc=host \
--gpus all \
-p 8000:8000 \
-v ~/.cache:/root/.cache:rw \
--name tensorrt_llm \
nvcr.io/nvidia/tensorrt-llm/release:1.0.0rc6 \
/bin/bash
```

Note:

* The command mounts your user `.cache` directory to save the downloaded model checkpoints which are saved to `~/.cache/huggingface/hub/` by default. This prevents having to redownload the weights each time you rerun the container. If the `~/.cache` directory doesn’t exist please create it using `$ mkdir ~/.cache`.
* You can mount additional directories and paths using the `-v <host_path>:<container_path>` flag if needed, such as mounting the downloaded weight paths.
* The command also maps port `8000` from the container to your host so you can access the LLM API endpoint from your host
* See the <https://catalog.ngc.nvidia.com/orgs/nvidia/teams/tensorrt-llm/containers/release/tags> for all the available containers. The containers published in the main branch weekly have `rcN` suffix, while the monthly release with QA tests has no `rcN` suffix. Use the `rc` release to get the latest model and feature support.

If you want to use latest main branch, you can choose to build from source to install TensorRT-LLM, the steps refer to <https://nvidia.github.io/TensorRT-LLM/latest/installation/build-from-source-linux.html>.

### Creating the TRT-LLM Server config

We create a YAML configuration file `/tmp/config.yml` for the TensorRT-LLM Server and populate it with the following recommended performance settings.

For low-latency with `TRTLLM` MOE backend:

```shell
EXTRA_LLM_API_FILE=/tmp/config.yml

cat << EOF > ${EXTRA_LLM_API_FILE}
enable_attention_dp: false
cuda_graph_config:
  enable_padding: true
  max_batch_size: 720
moe_config:
    backend: TRTLLM
stream_interval: 10
num_postprocess_workers: 4
EOF
```

For max-throughput with `CUTLASS` MOE backend:

```shell
EXTRA_LLM_API_FILE=/tmp/config.yml

cat << EOF > ${EXTRA_LLM_API_FILE}
enable_attention_dp: true
cuda_graph_config:
  enable_padding: true
  max_batch_size: 720
moe_config:
    backend: CUTLASS
stream_interval: 10
num_postprocess_workers: 4
EOF
```

### Launch the TRT-LLM Server

Below is an example command to launch the TRT-LLM server with the GPT-OSS model from within the container. The command is specifically configured for the 1024/1024 Input/Output Sequence Length test. The explanation of each flag is shown in the “Configs and Parameters” section.

```shell
trtllm-serve openai/gpt-oss-120b \
    --host 0.0.0.0 \
    --port 8000 \
    --backend pytorch \
    --max_batch_size 720 \
    --max_num_tokens 16384 \
    --kv_cache_free_gpu_memory_fraction 0.9 \
    --tp_size 8 \
    --ep_size 8 \
    --trust_remote_code \
    --extra_llm_api_options ${EXTRA_LLM_API_FILE}
```

After the server is set up, the client can now send prompt requests to the server and receive results.

### Configs and Parameters

These options are used directly on the command line when you start the `trtllm-serve` process.

#### `--tp_size`

* **Description:** Sets the **tensor-parallel size**. This should typically match the number of GPUs you intend to use for a single model instance.

#### `--ep_size`

* **Description:** Sets the **expert-parallel size** for Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) models. Like `tp_size`, this should generally match the number of GPUs you're using. This setting has no effect on non-MoE models.

#### `--kv_cache_free_gpu_memory_fraction`

* **Description:** A value between `0.0` and `1.0` that specifies the fraction of free GPU memory to reserve for the KV cache after the model is loaded. Since memory usage can fluctuate, this buffer helps prevent out-of-memory (OOM) errors.
* **Recommendation:** If you experience OOM errors, try reducing this value to `0.7` or lower.

#### `--backend pytorch`

* **Description:** Tells TensorRT-LLM to use the **pytorch** backend.

#### `--max_batch_size`

* **Description:** The maximum number of user requests that can be grouped into a single batch for processing. The actual max batch size that can be achieved depends on total sequence length (input + output).

#### `--max_num_tokens`

* **Description:** The maximum total number of tokens (across all requests) allowed inside a single scheduled batch.

#### `--max_seq_len`

* **Description:** The maximum possible sequence length for a single request, including both input and generated output tokens. We won't specifically set it. It will be inferred from model config.

#### `--trust_remote_code`

* **Description:** Allows TensorRT-LLM to download models and tokenizers from Hugging Face. This flag is passed directly to the Hugging Face API.


#### Extra LLM API Options (YAML Configuration)

These options provide finer control over performance and are set within a YAML file passed to the `trtllm-serve` command via the `--extra_llm_api_options` argument.

#### `cuda_graph_config`

* **Description**: A section for configuring CUDA graphs to optimize performance.

* **Options**:

  * `enable_padding`: If `"true"`, input batches are padded to the nearest `cuda_graph_batch_size`. This can significantly improve performance.

    **Default**: `false`

  * `max_batch_size`: Sets the maximum batch size for which a CUDA graph will be created.

    **Default**: `0`

    **Recommendation**: Set this to the same value as the `--max_batch_size` command-line option.

#### `moe_config`

* **Description**: Configuration for Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) models.

* **Options**:

  * `backend`: The backend to use for MoE operations.
    **Default**: `CUTLASS`

See the [`TorchLlmArgs` class](https://nvidia.github.io/TensorRT-LLM/llm-api/reference.html#tensorrt_llm.llmapi.TorchLlmArgs) for the full list of options which can be used in the `extra_llm_api_options`.

## Testing API Endpoint

### Basic Test

Start a new terminal on the host to test the TensorRT-LLM server you just launched.

You can query the health/readiness of the server using:

```shell
curl -s -o /dev/null -w "Status: %{http_code}\n" "http://localhost:8000/health"
```

When the `Status: 200` code is returned, the server is ready for queries. Note that the very first query may take longer due to initialization and compilation.

After the TRT-LLM server is set up and shows Application startup complete, you can send requests to the server.

```shell
curl http://localhost:8000/v1/chat/completions -H "Content-Type: application/json"  -d '{
    "model": "openai/gpt-oss-120b",
    "messages": [
        {
            "role": "user",
            "content": "Where is New York?"
        }
    ],
    "max_tokens": 1024,
    "top_p": 1.0
}' -w "\n"
```

Here is an example response, showing that the TRT-LLM server reasons and answers the questions.

TODO: Use Chat Compeletions API / Responses API as the example after the PR is merged.

```json
{"id":"chatcmpl-c5bf51b5cab94e10ba5da5266d12ee59","object":"chat.completion","created":1755815898,"model":"openai/gpt-oss-120b","choices":[{"index":0,"message":{"role":"assistant","content":"analysisThe user asks: \"Where is New York?\" Likely they want location info. Provide answer: New York State in northeastern US, New York City on the east coast, coordinates, etc. Provide context.assistantfinal**New York** can refer to two related places in the United States:\n\n| What it is | Where it is | Approx. coordinates | How to picture it |\n|------------|------------|--------------------|-------------------|\n| **New York State** | The northeastern corner of the United States, bordered by **Vermont, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and the Canadian provinces of Ontario and Quebec**. | 42.7° N, 75.5° W (roughly the state’s geographic centre) | A roughly rectangular state that stretches from the Atlantic Ocean in the southeast to the Adirondack Mountains and the Great Lakes region in the north. |\n| **New York City (NYC)** | The largest city in the state, located on the **southern tip of the state** where the **Hudson River meets the Atlantic Ocean**. It occupies five boroughs: Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, The Bronx, and Staten Island. | 40.7128° N, 74.0060° W | A dense, world‑famous metropolis that sits on a series of islands (Manhattan, Staten Island, parts of the Bronx) and the mainland (Brooklyn and Queens). |\n\n### Quick geographic context\n- **On a map of the United States:** New York State is in the **Northeast** region, just east of the Great Lakes and north of Pennsylvania.  \n- **From Washington, D.C.:** Travel roughly **225 mi (360 km) northeast**.  \n- **From Boston, MA:** Travel about **215 mi (350 km) southwest**.  \n- **From Toronto, Canada:** Travel about **500 mi (800 km) southeast**.\n\n### Travel tips\n- **By air:** Major airports include **John F. Kennedy International (JFK)**, **LaGuardia (LGA)**, and **Newark Liberty International (EWR)** (the latter is actually in New Jersey but serves the NYC metro area).  \n- **By train:** Amtrak’s **Northeast Corridor** runs from **Boston → New York City → Washington, D.C.**  \n- **By car:** Interstates **I‑87** (north‑south) and **I‑90** (east‑west) are the primary highways crossing the state.\n\n### Fun fact\n- The name “**New York**” was given by the English in 1664, honoring the Duke of York (later King James II). The city’s original Dutch name was **“New Amsterdam.”**\n\nIf you need more specific directions (e.g., how to get to a particular neighborhood, landmark, or the state capital **Albany**), just let me know!","reasoning_content":null,"tool_calls":[]},"logprobs":null,"finish_reason":"stop","stop_reason":null,"mm_embedding_handle":null,"disaggregated_params":null,"avg_decoded_tokens_per_iter":1.0}],"usage":{"prompt_tokens":72,"total_tokens":705,"completion_tokens":633},"prompt_token_ids":null}
```

### Troubleshooting Tips

* If you encounter CUDA out-of-memory errors, try reducing `max_batch_size` or `max_seq_len`.
* Ensure your model checkpoints are compatible with the expected format.
* For performance issues, check GPU utilization with nvidia-smi while the server is running.
* If the container fails to start, verify that the NVIDIA Container Toolkit is properly installed.
* For connection issues, make sure the server port (`8000` in this guide) is not being used by another application.

### Running Evaluations to Verify Accuracy (Optional)

We use OpenAI's official evaluation tool to test the model's accuracy. For more information see [https://github.com/openai/gpt-oss/tree/main/gpt_oss/evals](gpt-oss-eval).
With the added support of Chat Completions and Responses API in `trtllm-serve,` `gpt_oss.evals` works directly without any modifications.

## Benchmarking Performance

To benchmark the performance of your TensorRT-LLM server you can leverage the built-in `benchmark_serving.py` script. To do this first creating a wrapper `bench.sh` script.

```shell
cat <<'EOF' > bench.sh
#!/usr/bin/env bash
set -euo pipefail

concurrency_list="32 64 128 256 512 1024 2048 4096"
multi_round=5
isl=1024
osl=1024
result_dir=/tmp/gpt_oss_output

for concurrency in ${concurrency_list}; do
    num_prompts=$((concurrency * multi_round))
    python -m tensorrt_llm.serve.scripts.benchmark_serving \
        --model openai/gpt-oss-120b \
        --backend openai \
        --dataset-name "random" \
        --random-input-len ${isl} \
        --random-output-len ${osl} \
        --random-prefix-len 0 \
        --random-ids \
        --num-prompts ${num_prompts} \
        --max-concurrency ${concurrency} \
        --ignore-eos \
        --tokenize-on-client \
        --percentile-metrics "ttft,tpot,itl,e2el"
done
EOF
chmod +x bench.sh
```

To achieve max through-put, with attention DP on, one needs to sweep up to `concurrency = max_batch_size * num_gpus`.

If you want to save the results to a file add the following options.

```shell
--save-result \
--result-dir "${result_dir}" \
--result-filename "concurrency_${concurrency}.json"
```

For more benchmarking options see <https://github.com/NVIDIA/TensorRT-LLM/blob/main/tensorrt\_llm/serve/scripts/benchmark\_serving.py>.

Run `bench.sh` to begin a serving benchmark. This will take a long time if you run all the concurrencies mentioned in the above `bench.sh` script.

```shell
./bench.sh
```

Sample TensorRT-LLM serving benchmark output. Your results may vary due to ongoing software optimizations.

```
============ Serving Benchmark Result ============
Successful requests:                      16
Benchmark duration (s):                   17.66
Total input tokens:                       16384
Total generated tokens:                   16384
Request throughput (req/s):               [result]
Output token throughput (tok/s):          [result]
Total Token throughput (tok/s):           [result]
User throughput (tok/s):                  [result]
---------------Time to First Token----------------
Mean TTFT (ms):                           [result]
Median TTFT (ms):                         [result]
P99 TTFT (ms):                            [result]
-----Time per Output Token (excl. 1st token)------
Mean TPOT (ms):                           [result]
Median TPOT (ms):                         [result]
P99 TPOT (ms):                            [result]
---------------Inter-token Latency----------------
Mean ITL (ms):                            [result]
Median ITL (ms):                          [result]
P99 ITL (ms):                             [result]
----------------End-to-end Latency----------------
Mean E2EL (ms):                           [result]
Median E2EL (ms):                         [result]
P99 E2EL (ms):                            [result]
==================================================
```

### Key Metrics

* Median Time to First Token (TTFT)
  * The typical time elapsed from when a request is sent until the first output token is generated.
* Median Time Per Output Token (TPOT)
  * The typical time required to generate each token *after* the first one.
* Median Inter-Token Latency (ITL)
  * The typical time delay between the completion of one token and the completion of the next.
* Median End-to-End Latency (E2EL)
  * The typical total time from when a request is submitted until the final token of the response is received.
* Total Token Throughput
  * The combined rate at which the system processes both input (prompt) tokens and output (generated) tokens.
