docs/source/deployment-guide/quick-start-recipe-for-deepseek-r1-on-trtllm.md, before:

# Quick Start Recipe for DeepSeek R1 on TensorRT-LLM - Blackwell & Hopper Hardware

## Introduction

This deployment guide provides step-by-step instructions for running the DeepSeek R1 model using TensorRT-LLM with FP8 and NVFP4 quantization, optimized for NVIDIA GPUs. It covers the complete setup required; from accessing model weights and preparing the software environment to configuring TensorRT-LLM parameters, launching the server, and validating inference output.

The guide is intended for developers and practitioners seeking high-throughput or low-latency inference using NVIDIA’s accelerated stack—starting with the PyTorch container from NGC, then installing TensorRT-LLM for model serving, FlashInfer for optimized CUDA kernels, and ModelOpt to enable FP8 and NVFP4 quantized execution.

## Prerequisites

* GPU: NVIDIA Blackwell or Hopper Architecture
* OS: Linux
* Drivers: CUDA Driver 575 or Later
* Docker with NVIDIA Container Toolkit installed
* Python3 and python3-pip (Optional, for accuracy evaluation only)

## Models

* FP8 model: [DeepSeek-R1-0528](https://huggingface.co/deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1-0528)
* NVFP4 model: [DeepSeek-R1-0528-FP4](https://huggingface.co/nvidia/DeepSeek-R1-0528-FP4)


Note that NVFP4 is only supported on NVIDIA Blackwell platform.

## Deployment Steps

### Run Docker Container

Run the docker container using the TensorRT-LLM NVIDIA NGC image.

```shell
docker run --rm -it \
--ipc=host \
--gpus all \
-p 8000:8000 \
-v ~/.cache:/root/.cache:rw \
--name tensorrt_llm \
nvcr.io/nvidia/tensorrt-llm/release:1.0.0rc6 \
/bin/bash
```

Note:

* The command mounts your user `.cache` directory to save the downloaded model checkpoints which are saved to `~/.cache/huggingface/hub/` by default. This prevents having to redownload the weights each time you rerun the container. If the `~/.cache` directory doesn’t exist please create it using `$ mkdir ~/.cache`.
* You can mount additional directories and paths using the `-v <host_path>:<container_path>` flag if needed, such as mounting the downloaded weight paths.
* The command also maps port `8000` from the container to your host so you can access the LLM API endpoint from your host
* See the <https://catalog.ngc.nvidia.com/orgs/nvidia/teams/tensorrt-llm/containers/release/tags> for all the available containers. The containers published in the main branch weekly have `rcN` suffix, while the monthly release with QA tests has no `rcN` suffix. Use the `rc` release to get the latest model and feature support.

If you want to use latest main branch, you can choose to build from source to install TensorRT-LLM, the steps refer to <https://nvidia.github.io/TensorRT-LLM/latest/installation/build-from-source-linux.html>.

### Creating the TRT-LLM Server config

We create a YAML configuration file `/tmp/config.yml` for the TensorRT-LLM Server and populate it with the following recommended performance settings.

```shell
EXTRA_LLM_API_FILE=/tmp/config.yml

cat << EOF > ${EXTRA_LLM_API_FILE}
enable_attention_dp: true
cuda_graph_config:
  enable_padding: true
  max_batch_size: 128
kv_cache_config:
  dtype: fp8
stream_interval: 10
speculative_config:
  decoding_type: MTP
  num_nextn_predict_layers: 1
EOF
```

For FP8 model, we need extra `moe_config`:

```shell
EXTRA_LLM_API_FILE=/tmp/config.yml

cat << EOF > ${EXTRA_LLM_API_FILE}
enable_attention_dp: true
cuda_graph_config:
  enable_padding: true
  max_batch_size: 128
kv_cache_config:
  dtype: fp8
stream_interval: 10
speculative_config:
  decoding_type: MTP
  num_nextn_predict_layers: 1
moe_config:
  backend: DEEPGEMM
  max_num_tokens: 3200
EOF
```

### Launch the TRT-LLM Server

Below is an example command to launch the TRT-LLM server with the DeepSeek-R1 model from within the container. The command is specifically configured for the 1024/1024 Input/Output Sequence Length test. The explanation of each flag is shown in the “Configs and Parameters” section.

```shell
trtllm-serve deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1-0528 \
    --host 0.0.0.0 \
    --port 8000 \
    --backend pytorch \
    --max_batch_size 1024 \
    --max_num_tokens 3200 \
    --max_seq_len 2048 \
    --kv_cache_free_gpu_memory_fraction 0.8 \
    --tp_size 8 \
    --ep_size 8 \
    --trust_remote_code \
    --extra_llm_api_options ${EXTRA_LLM_API_FILE}
```

After the server is set up, the client can now send prompt requests to the server and receive results.

### Configs and Parameters

These options are used directly on the command line when you start the `trtllm-serve` process.

#### `--tp_size`

* **Description:** Sets the **tensor-parallel size**. This should typically match the number of GPUs you intend to use for a single model instance.

#### `--ep_size`

* **Description:** Sets the **expert-parallel size** for Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) models. Like `tp_size`, this should generally match the number of GPUs you're using. This setting has no effect on non-MoE models.

#### `--kv_cache_free_gpu_memory_fraction`

* **Description:** A value between `0.0` and `1.0` that specifies the fraction of free GPU memory to reserve for the KV cache after the model is loaded. Since memory usage can fluctuate, this buffer helps prevent out-of-memory (OOM) errors.
* **Recommendation:** If you experience OOM errors, try reducing this value to `0.7` or lower.

#### `--backend pytorch`

* **Description:** Tells TensorRT-LLM to use the **pytorch** backend.

#### `--max_batch_size`

* **Description:** The maximum number of user requests that can be grouped into a single batch for processing.

#### `--max_num_tokens`

* **Description:** The maximum total number of tokens (across all requests) allowed inside a single scheduled batch.

#### `--max_seq_len`

* **Description:** The maximum possible sequence length for a single request, including both input and generated output tokens.

#### `--trust_remote_code`

* **Description:** Allows TensorRT-LLM to download models and tokenizers from Hugging Face. This flag is passed directly to the Hugging Face API.


#### Extra LLM API Options (YAML Configuration)

These options provide finer control over performance and are set within a YAML file passed to the `trtllm-serve` command via the `--extra_llm_api_options` argument.

#### `kv_cache_config`

* **Description**: A section for configuring the Key-Value (KV) cache.

* **Options**:

  * `dtype`: Sets the data type for the KV cache.
    **Default**: `"auto"` (uses the data type specified in the model checkpoint).

#### `cuda_graph_config`

* **Description**: A section for configuring CUDA graphs to optimize performance.

* **Options**:

  * `enable_padding`: If `"true"`, input batches are padded to the nearest `cuda_graph_batch_size`. This can significantly improve performance.

    **Default**: `false`

  * `max_batch_size`: Sets the maximum batch size for which a CUDA graph will be created.

    **Default**: `0`

    **Recommendation**: Set this to the same value as the `--max_batch_size` command-line option.

  * `batch_sizes`: A specific list of batch sizes to create CUDA graphs for.

     **Default**: `None`

#### `moe_config`

* **Description**: Configuration for Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) models.

* **Options**:

  * `backend`: The backend to use for MoE operations.
    **Default**: `CUTLASS`

#### `attention_backend`

* **Description**: The backend to use for attention calculations.

* **Default**: `TRTLLM`

See the [`TorchLlmArgs` class](https://nvidia.github.io/TensorRT-LLM/llm-api/reference.html#tensorrt_llm.llmapi.TorchLlmArgs) for the full list of options which can be used in the `extra_llm_api_options`.

## Testing API Endpoint

### Basic Test

Start a new terminal on the host to test the TensorRT-LLM server you just launched.

You can query the health/readiness of the server using:

```shell
curl -s -o /dev/null -w "Status: %{http_code}\n" "http://localhost:8000/health"
```

When the `Status: 200` code is returned, the server is ready for queries. Note that the very first query may take longer due to initialization and compilation.

After the TRT-LLM server is set up and shows Application startup complete, you can send requests to the server.

```shell
curl http://localhost:8000/v1/completions -H "Content-Type: application/json"  -d '{
      "model": "deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1-0528",
      "prompt": "Where is New York?",
      "max_tokens": 16,
      "temperature": 0
}'
```

Here is an example response, showing that the TRT-LLM server returns “New York is a state located in the northeastern United States. It is bordered by”, completing the input sequence.

```json
{"id":"cmpl-e728f08114c042309efeae4df86a50ca","object":"text_completion","created":1754294810,"model":"deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1-0528","choices":[{"index":0,"text":" / by Megan Stine ; illustrated by John Hinderliter.\n\nBook | Gross","token_ids":null,"logprobs":null,"context_logits":null,"finish_reason":"length","stop_reason":null,"disaggregated_params":null}],"usage":{"prompt_tokens":6,"total_tokens":22,"completion_tokens":16},"prompt_token_ids":null}
```

### Troubleshooting Tips

* If you encounter CUDA out-of-memory errors, try reducing `max_batch_size` or `max_seq_len`.
  * For running input/output sequence lengths of 8K/1K on H200, there is a known CUDA Out-Of-Memory issue caused by the PyTorch CUDA Caching Allocator fragmenting memory. As a workaround, you can set the environment variable `PYTORCH_CUDA_ALLOC_CONF=max_split_size_mb:8192`. For more details, please refer to the [PyTorch documentation on optimizing memory usage](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/notes/cuda.html#optimizing-memory-usage-with-pytorch-cuda-alloc-conf).
* Ensure your model checkpoints are compatible with the expected format.
* For performance issues, check GPU utilization with nvidia-smi while the server is running.
* If the container fails to start, verify that the NVIDIA Container Toolkit is properly installed.
* For connection issues, make sure the server port (`8000` in this guide) is not being used by another application.

### Running Evaluations to Verify Accuracy (Optional)

We use the `lm-eval` tool to test the model’s accuracy. For more information see [https://github.com/EleutherAI/lm-evaluation-harness](https://github.com/EleutherAI/lm-evaluation-harness).

To run the evaluation harness exec into the running TensorRT-LLM container and install with this command:

```shell
docker exec -it tensorrt_llm /bin/bash

pip install lm_eval
```

FP8 command for GSM8K:

* Note: The tokenizer will add BOS (beginning of sentence token) before input prompt by default which leads to accuracy regression on GSM8K task for DeepSeek R1 model. So, set `add_special_tokens=False` to avoid it.

```shell
MODEL_PATH=deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1-0528

lm_eval --model local-completions  --tasks gsm8k --batch_size 256 --gen_kwargs temperature=0.0,add_special_tokens=False --num_fewshot 5 --model_args model=${MODEL_PATH},base_url=http://localhost:8000/v1/completions,num_concurrent=32,max_retries=20,tokenized_requests=False --log_samples --output_path trtllm.fp8.gsm8k
```

Sample result in Blackwell:

```
|Tasks|Version|     Filter     |n-shot|  Metric   |   |Value |   |Stderr|
|-----|------:|----------------|-----:|-----------|---|-----:|---|-----:|
|gsm8k|      3|flexible-extract|     5|exact_match|↑  |0.9538|±  |0.0058|
|     |       |strict-match    |     5|exact_match|↑  |0.9500|±  |0.0060|
```

FP4 command for GSM8K:

* Note: The tokenizer will add BOS before input prompt by default, which leads to accuracy regression on GSM8K task for DeepSeek R1 model. So set `add_special_tokens=False` to avoid it.

```shell
MODEL_PATH=nvidia/DeepSeek-R1-0528-FP4

lm_eval --model local-completions  --tasks gsm8k --batch_size 256 --gen_kwargs temperature=0.0,add_special_tokens=False --num_fewshot 5 --model_args model=${MODEL_PATH},base_url=http://localhost:8000/v1/completions,num_concurrent=32,max_retries=20,tokenized_requests=False --log_samples --output_path trtllm.fp4.gsm8k
```

Sample result in Blackwell:

```
|Tasks|Version|     Filter     |n-shot|  Metric   |   |Value |   |Stderr|
|-----|------:|----------------|-----:|-----------|---|-----:|---|-----:|
|gsm8k|      3|flexible-extract|     5|exact_match|↑  |0.9462|±  |0.0062|
|     |       |strict-match    |     5|exact_match|↑  |0.9447|±  |0.0063|
```

## Benchmarking Performance

To benchmark the performance of your TensorRT-LLM server you can leverage the built-in `benchmark_serving.py` script. To do this first creating a wrapper `bench.sh` script.

```shell
cat <<EOF >  bench.sh
concurrency_list="32 64 128 256 512 1024 2048 4096"
multi_round=5
isl=1024
osl=1024
result_dir=/tmp/deepseek_r1_output

for concurrency in ${concurrency_list}; do
    num_prompts=$((concurrency * multi_round))
    python -m tensorrt_llm.serve.scripts.benchmark_serving \
        --model deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1-0528 \
        --backend openai \
        --dataset-name "random" \
        --random-input-len ${isl} \
        --random-output-len ${osl} \
        --random-prefix-len 0 \
        --random-ids \
        --num-prompts ${num_prompts} \
        --max-concurrency ${concurrency} \
        --ignore-eos \
        --tokenize-on-client \
        --percentile-metrics "ttft,tpot,itl,e2el"
done
EOF
chmod +x bench.sh
```

To benchmark the FP4 model, replace `--model deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1-0528` with `--model nvidia/DeepSeek-R1-0528-FP4`.

If you want to save the results to a file add the following options.

```shell
--save-result \
--result-dir "${result_dir}" \
--result-filename "concurrency_${concurrency}.json"
```

For more benchmarking options see <https://github.com/NVIDIA/TensorRT-LLM/blob/main/tensorrt\_llm/serve/scripts/benchmark\_serving.py>.

Run `bench.sh` to begin a serving benchmark. This will take a long time if you run all the concurrencies mentioned in the above `bench.sh` script.

```shell
./bench.sh
```

Sample TensorRT-LLM serving benchmark output. Your results may vary due to ongoing software optimizations.

```
============ Serving Benchmark Result ============
Successful requests:                      16
Benchmark duration (s):                   17.66
Total input tokens:                       16384
Total generated tokens:                   16384
Request throughput (req/s):               [result]
Output token throughput (tok/s):          [result]
Total Token throughput (tok/s):           [result]
User throughput (tok/s):                  [result]
---------------Time to First Token----------------
Mean TTFT (ms):                           [result]
Median TTFT (ms):                         [result]
P99 TTFT (ms):                            [result]
-----Time per Output Token (excl. 1st token)------
Mean TPOT (ms):                           [result]
Median TPOT (ms):                         [result]
P99 TPOT (ms):                            [result]
---------------Inter-token Latency----------------
Mean ITL (ms):                            [result]
Median ITL (ms):                          [result]
P99 ITL (ms):                             [result]
----------------End-to-end Latency----------------
Mean E2EL (ms):                           [result]
Median E2EL (ms):                         [result]
P99 E2EL (ms):                            [result]
==================================================
```

### Key Metrics

* Median Time to First Token (TTFT)
  * The typical time elapsed from when a request is sent until the first output token is generated.
* Median Time Per Output Token (TPOT)
  * The typical time required to generate each token *after* the first one.
* Median Inter-Token Latency (ITL)
  * The typical time delay between the completion of one token and the completion of the next.
* Median End-to-End Latency (E2EL)
  * The typical total time from when a request is submitted until the final token of the response is received.
* Total Token Throughput
  * The combined rate at which the system processes both input (prompt) tokens and output (generated) tokens.

Commit message:

[None][doc] update moe support matrix for DS R1 (#6883)
Signed-off-by: taoli <litaotju@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: taoli <litaotju@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/source/deployment-guide/quick-start-recipe-for-deepseek-r1-on-trtllm.md, after:

# Quick Start Recipe for DeepSeek R1 on TensorRT-LLM - Blackwell & Hopper Hardware

## Introduction

This deployment guide provides step-by-step instructions for running the DeepSeek R1 model using TensorRT-LLM with FP8 and NVFP4 quantization, optimized for NVIDIA GPUs. It covers the complete setup required; from accessing model weights and preparing the software environment to configuring TensorRT-LLM parameters, launching the server, and validating inference output.

The guide is intended for developers and practitioners seeking high-throughput or low-latency inference using NVIDIA’s accelerated stack—starting with the PyTorch container from NGC, then installing TensorRT-LLM for model serving, FlashInfer for optimized CUDA kernels, and ModelOpt to enable FP8 and NVFP4 quantized execution.

## Prerequisites

* GPU: NVIDIA Blackwell or Hopper Architecture
* OS: Linux
* Drivers: CUDA Driver 575 or Later
* Docker with NVIDIA Container Toolkit installed
* Python3 and python3-pip (Optional, for accuracy evaluation only)

## Models

* FP8 model: [DeepSeek-R1-0528](https://huggingface.co/deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1-0528)
* NVFP4 model: [DeepSeek-R1-0528-FP4](https://huggingface.co/nvidia/DeepSeek-R1-0528-FP4)


## MoE Backend Support Matrix

There are multiple MOE backends inside TRT-LLM, not all of them supporting every  precision on every GPUs. Here are the support matrix of the MOE backends.

| device | Checkpoint | Supported moe_backend |
|----------|----------|----------|
| H100/H200 | FP8 | CUTLASS |
| B200/GB200 EP<=8 | NVFP4 | CUTLASS, TRTLLM |
| B200/GB200 EP<=8 | FP8 | DEEPGEMM |
| GB200 NVL72 EP>8 | NVFP4 |  WIDEEP |
| GB200 NVL72 EP>8 | FP8 | N/A (WIP) |

The default moe backend is `CUTLASS`, so for the combination which is not supported by `CUTLASS`, one must set the `moe_config.backend` explicitly to run the model.

## Deployment Steps

### Run Docker Container

Run the docker container using the TensorRT-LLM NVIDIA NGC image.

```shell
docker run --rm -it \
--ipc=host \
--gpus all \
-p 8000:8000 \
-v ~/.cache:/root/.cache:rw \
--name tensorrt_llm \
nvcr.io/nvidia/tensorrt-llm/release:1.0.0rc6 \
/bin/bash
```

Note:

* The command mounts your user `.cache` directory to save the downloaded model checkpoints which are saved to `~/.cache/huggingface/hub/` by default. This prevents having to redownload the weights each time you rerun the container. If the `~/.cache` directory doesn’t exist please create it using `$ mkdir ~/.cache`.
* You can mount additional directories and paths using the `-v <host_path>:<container_path>` flag if needed, such as mounting the downloaded weight paths.
* The command also maps port `8000` from the container to your host so you can access the LLM API endpoint from your host
* See the <https://catalog.ngc.nvidia.com/orgs/nvidia/teams/tensorrt-llm/containers/release/tags> for all the available containers. The containers published in the main branch weekly have `rcN` suffix, while the monthly release with QA tests has no `rcN` suffix. Use the `rc` release to get the latest model and feature support.

If you want to use latest main branch, you can choose to build from source to install TensorRT-LLM, the steps refer to <https://nvidia.github.io/TensorRT-LLM/latest/installation/build-from-source-linux.html>.

### Creating the TRT-LLM Server config

We create a YAML configuration file `/tmp/config.yml` for the TensorRT-LLM Server and populate it with the following recommended performance settings.

```shell
EXTRA_LLM_API_FILE=/tmp/config.yml

cat << EOF > ${EXTRA_LLM_API_FILE}
enable_attention_dp: true
cuda_graph_config:
  enable_padding: true
  max_batch_size: 128
kv_cache_config:
  dtype: fp8
stream_interval: 10
speculative_config:
  decoding_type: MTP
  num_nextn_predict_layers: 1
EOF
```

For FP8 model, we need extra `moe_config`:

```shell
EXTRA_LLM_API_FILE=/tmp/config.yml

cat << EOF > ${EXTRA_LLM_API_FILE}
enable_attention_dp: true
cuda_graph_config:
  enable_padding: true
  max_batch_size: 128
kv_cache_config:
  dtype: fp8
stream_interval: 10
speculative_config:
  decoding_type: MTP
  num_nextn_predict_layers: 1
moe_config:
  backend: DEEPGEMM
  max_num_tokens: 3200
EOF
```

### Launch the TRT-LLM Server

Below is an example command to launch the TRT-LLM server with the DeepSeek-R1 model from within the container. The command is specifically configured for the 1024/1024 Input/Output Sequence Length test. The explanation of each flag is shown in the “Configs and Parameters” section.

```shell
trtllm-serve deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1-0528 \
    --host 0.0.0.0 \
    --port 8000 \
    --backend pytorch \
    --max_batch_size 1024 \
    --max_num_tokens 3200 \
    --max_seq_len 2048 \
    --kv_cache_free_gpu_memory_fraction 0.8 \
    --tp_size 8 \
    --ep_size 8 \
    --trust_remote_code \
    --extra_llm_api_options ${EXTRA_LLM_API_FILE}
```

After the server is set up, the client can now send prompt requests to the server and receive results.

### Configs and Parameters

These options are used directly on the command line when you start the `trtllm-serve` process.

#### `--tp_size`

* **Description:** Sets the **tensor-parallel size**. This should typically match the number of GPUs you intend to use for a single model instance.

#### `--ep_size`

* **Description:** Sets the **expert-parallel size** for Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) models. Like `tp_size`, this should generally match the number of GPUs you're using. This setting has no effect on non-MoE models.

#### `--kv_cache_free_gpu_memory_fraction`

* **Description:** A value between `0.0` and `1.0` that specifies the fraction of free GPU memory to reserve for the KV cache after the model is loaded. Since memory usage can fluctuate, this buffer helps prevent out-of-memory (OOM) errors.
* **Recommendation:** If you experience OOM errors, try reducing this value to `0.7` or lower.

#### `--backend pytorch`

* **Description:** Tells TensorRT-LLM to use the **pytorch** backend.

#### `--max_batch_size`

* **Description:** The maximum number of user requests that can be grouped into a single batch for processing.

#### `--max_num_tokens`

* **Description:** The maximum total number of tokens (across all requests) allowed inside a single scheduled batch.

#### `--max_seq_len`

* **Description:** The maximum possible sequence length for a single request, including both input and generated output tokens.

#### `--trust_remote_code`

* **Description:** Allows TensorRT-LLM to download models and tokenizers from Hugging Face. This flag is passed directly to the Hugging Face API.


#### Extra LLM API Options (YAML Configuration)

These options provide finer control over performance and are set within a YAML file passed to the `trtllm-serve` command via the `--extra_llm_api_options` argument.

#### `kv_cache_config`

* **Description**: A section for configuring the Key-Value (KV) cache.

* **Options**:

  * `dtype`: Sets the data type for the KV cache.
    **Default**: `"auto"` (uses the data type specified in the model checkpoint).

#### `cuda_graph_config`

* **Description**: A section for configuring CUDA graphs to optimize performance.

* **Options**:

  * `enable_padding`: If `"true"`, input batches are padded to the nearest `cuda_graph_batch_size`. This can significantly improve performance.

    **Default**: `false`

  * `max_batch_size`: Sets the maximum batch size for which a CUDA graph will be created.

    **Default**: `0`

    **Recommendation**: Set this to the same value as the `--max_batch_size` command-line option.

  * `batch_sizes`: A specific list of batch sizes to create CUDA graphs for.

     **Default**: `None`

#### `moe_config`

* **Description**: Configuration for Mixture-of-Experts (MoE) models.

* **Options**:

  * `backend`: The backend to use for MoE operations.
    **Default**: `CUTLASS`

#### `attention_backend`

* **Description**: The backend to use for attention calculations.

* **Default**: `TRTLLM`

See the [`TorchLlmArgs` class](https://nvidia.github.io/TensorRT-LLM/llm-api/reference.html#tensorrt_llm.llmapi.TorchLlmArgs) for the full list of options which can be used in the `extra_llm_api_options`.

## Testing API Endpoint

### Basic Test

Start a new terminal on the host to test the TensorRT-LLM server you just launched.

You can query the health/readiness of the server using:

```shell
curl -s -o /dev/null -w "Status: %{http_code}\n" "http://localhost:8000/health"
```

When the `Status: 200` code is returned, the server is ready for queries. Note that the very first query may take longer due to initialization and compilation.

After the TRT-LLM server is set up and shows Application startup complete, you can send requests to the server.

```shell
curl http://localhost:8000/v1/completions -H "Content-Type: application/json"  -d '{
      "model": "deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1-0528",
      "prompt": "Where is New York?",
      "max_tokens": 16,
      "temperature": 0
}'
```

Here is an example response, showing that the TRT-LLM server returns “New York is a state located in the northeastern United States. It is bordered by”, completing the input sequence.

```json
{"id":"cmpl-e728f08114c042309efeae4df86a50ca","object":"text_completion","created":1754294810,"model":"deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1-0528","choices":[{"index":0,"text":" / by Megan Stine ; illustrated by John Hinderliter.\n\nBook | Gross","token_ids":null,"logprobs":null,"context_logits":null,"finish_reason":"length","stop_reason":null,"disaggregated_params":null}],"usage":{"prompt_tokens":6,"total_tokens":22,"completion_tokens":16},"prompt_token_ids":null}
```

### Troubleshooting Tips

* If you encounter CUDA out-of-memory errors, try reducing `max_batch_size` or `max_seq_len`.
  * For running input/output sequence lengths of 8K/1K on H200, there is a known CUDA Out-Of-Memory issue caused by the PyTorch CUDA Caching Allocator fragmenting memory. As a workaround, you can set the environment variable `PYTORCH_CUDA_ALLOC_CONF=max_split_size_mb:8192`. For more details, please refer to the [PyTorch documentation on optimizing memory usage](https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/notes/cuda.html#optimizing-memory-usage-with-pytorch-cuda-alloc-conf).
* Ensure your model checkpoints are compatible with the expected format.
* For performance issues, check GPU utilization with nvidia-smi while the server is running.
* If the container fails to start, verify that the NVIDIA Container Toolkit is properly installed.
* For connection issues, make sure the server port (`8000` in this guide) is not being used by another application.

### Running Evaluations to Verify Accuracy (Optional)

We use the `lm-eval` tool to test the model’s accuracy. For more information see [https://github.com/EleutherAI/lm-evaluation-harness](https://github.com/EleutherAI/lm-evaluation-harness).

To run the evaluation harness exec into the running TensorRT-LLM container and install with this command:

```shell
docker exec -it tensorrt_llm /bin/bash

pip install lm_eval
```

FP8 command for GSM8K:

* Note: The tokenizer will add BOS (beginning of sentence token) before input prompt by default which leads to accuracy regression on GSM8K task for DeepSeek R1 model. So, set `add_special_tokens=False` to avoid it.

```shell
MODEL_PATH=deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1-0528

lm_eval --model local-completions  --tasks gsm8k --batch_size 256 --gen_kwargs temperature=0.0,add_special_tokens=False --num_fewshot 5 --model_args model=${MODEL_PATH},base_url=http://localhost:8000/v1/completions,num_concurrent=32,max_retries=20,tokenized_requests=False --log_samples --output_path trtllm.fp8.gsm8k
```

Sample result in Blackwell:

```
|Tasks|Version|     Filter     |n-shot|  Metric   |   |Value |   |Stderr|
|-----|------:|----------------|-----:|-----------|---|-----:|---|-----:|
|gsm8k|      3|flexible-extract|     5|exact_match|↑  |0.9538|±  |0.0058|
|     |       |strict-match    |     5|exact_match|↑  |0.9500|±  |0.0060|
```

FP4 command for GSM8K:

* Note: The tokenizer will add BOS before input prompt by default, which leads to accuracy regression on GSM8K task for DeepSeek R1 model. So set `add_special_tokens=False` to avoid it.

```shell
MODEL_PATH=nvidia/DeepSeek-R1-0528-FP4

lm_eval --model local-completions  --tasks gsm8k --batch_size 256 --gen_kwargs temperature=0.0,add_special_tokens=False --num_fewshot 5 --model_args model=${MODEL_PATH},base_url=http://localhost:8000/v1/completions,num_concurrent=32,max_retries=20,tokenized_requests=False --log_samples --output_path trtllm.fp4.gsm8k
```

Sample result in Blackwell:

```
|Tasks|Version|     Filter     |n-shot|  Metric   |   |Value |   |Stderr|
|-----|------:|----------------|-----:|-----------|---|-----:|---|-----:|
|gsm8k|      3|flexible-extract|     5|exact_match|↑  |0.9462|±  |0.0062|
|     |       |strict-match    |     5|exact_match|↑  |0.9447|±  |0.0063|
```

## Benchmarking Performance

To benchmark the performance of your TensorRT-LLM server you can leverage the built-in `benchmark_serving.py` script. To do this first creating a wrapper `bench.sh` script.

```shell
cat <<EOF >  bench.sh
concurrency_list="32 64 128 256 512 1024 2048 4096"
multi_round=5
isl=1024
osl=1024
result_dir=/tmp/deepseek_r1_output

for concurrency in ${concurrency_list}; do
    num_prompts=$((concurrency * multi_round))
    python -m tensorrt_llm.serve.scripts.benchmark_serving \
        --model deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1-0528 \
        --backend openai \
        --dataset-name "random" \
        --random-input-len ${isl} \
        --random-output-len ${osl} \
        --random-prefix-len 0 \
        --random-ids \
        --num-prompts ${num_prompts} \
        --max-concurrency ${concurrency} \
        --ignore-eos \
        --tokenize-on-client \
        --percentile-metrics "ttft,tpot,itl,e2el"
done
EOF
chmod +x bench.sh
```

To benchmark the FP4 model, replace `--model deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1-0528` with `--model nvidia/DeepSeek-R1-0528-FP4`.

If you want to save the results to a file add the following options.

```shell
--save-result \
--result-dir "${result_dir}" \
--result-filename "concurrency_${concurrency}.json"
```

For more benchmarking options see <https://github.com/NVIDIA/TensorRT-LLM/blob/main/tensorrt\_llm/serve/scripts/benchmark\_serving.py>.

Run `bench.sh` to begin a serving benchmark. This will take a long time if you run all the concurrencies mentioned in the above `bench.sh` script.

```shell
./bench.sh
```

Sample TensorRT-LLM serving benchmark output. Your results may vary due to ongoing software optimizations.

```
============ Serving Benchmark Result ============
Successful requests:                      16
Benchmark duration (s):                   17.66
Total input tokens:                       16384
Total generated tokens:                   16384
Request throughput (req/s):               [result]
Output token throughput (tok/s):          [result]
Total Token throughput (tok/s):           [result]
User throughput (tok/s):                  [result]
---------------Time to First Token----------------
Mean TTFT (ms):                           [result]
Median TTFT (ms):                         [result]
P99 TTFT (ms):                            [result]
-----Time per Output Token (excl. 1st token)------
Mean TPOT (ms):                           [result]
Median TPOT (ms):                         [result]
P99 TPOT (ms):                            [result]
---------------Inter-token Latency----------------
Mean ITL (ms):                            [result]
Median ITL (ms):                          [result]
P99 ITL (ms):                             [result]
----------------End-to-end Latency----------------
Mean E2EL (ms):                           [result]
Median E2EL (ms):                         [result]
P99 E2EL (ms):                            [result]
==================================================
```

### Key Metrics

* Median Time to First Token (TTFT)
  * The typical time elapsed from when a request is sent until the first output token is generated.
* Median Time Per Output Token (TPOT)
  * The typical time required to generate each token *after* the first one.
* Median Inter-Token Latency (ITL)
  * The typical time delay between the completion of one token and the completion of the next.
* Median End-to-End Latency (E2EL)
  * The typical total time from when a request is submitted until the final token of the response is received.
* Total Token Throughput
  * The combined rate at which the system processes both input (prompt) tokens and output (generated) tokens.
