examples/disaggregated/slurm/benchmark/README.md, before:

# Disaggregated Inference Benchmark Scripts

This directory contains scripts to run disaggregated inference benchmarks using TensorRT-LLM and SLURM.

## Overview

The benchmarking process is orchestrated through a set of shell scripts and a Python script that work together:

1.  `submit.sh`: The main entry point for submitting benchmark jobs to SLURM. It runs a parameter sweep by calling `sbatch` with different configurations.
2.  `disaggr_torch.slurm`: The SLURM script that sets up and runs a single benchmark experiment. It launches a container, generates a configuration file, starts the server and workers, and runs the benchmark client.
3.  `gen_yaml.py`: A Python script that generates the `config.yaml` file needed by `trtllm-serve`. It determines the server and worker configuration based on SLURM environment variables and script arguments.
4.  `start_worker.sh`: A shell script responsible for starting a `trtllm-serve disaggregated_mpi_worker` on each allocated machine.
5.  `run_benchmark.sh`: A shell script that waits for the server to be healthy and then runs the actual benchmark client (`run_benchmark.py`, not included in this directory).

## File Descriptions

### `submit.sh`

This script is used to submit multiple SLURM jobs for running benchmarks with different parameters. It iterates through various configurations and uses `sbatch` to submit `disaggr_torch.slurm` for each one.

**Usage:**

```bash
./submit.sh
```

You can modify the loops in this script to change the parameter space for the benchmark sweep.

### `disaggr_torch.slurm`

This is the core SLURM script for a single benchmark run. It is not meant to be run directly, but rather submitted via `sbatch` (e.g., by `submit.sh`).

It takes the following arguments in order:

1.  `num_ctx_servers`: Number of context servers.
2.  `ctx_tp_size`: Tensor parallel size for context servers.
3.  `ctx_batch_size`: Max batch size for context servers.
4.  `ctx_max_num_tokens`: Max number of tokens for context servers.
5.  `ctx_enable_attention_dp`: `true` or `false` to enable attention DP for context servers.
6.  `num_gen_servers`: Number of generation servers.
7.  `gen_tp_size`: Tensor parallel size for generation servers.
8.  `gen_batch_size`: Max batch size for generation servers.
9.  `gen_max_num_tokens`: Max number of tokens for generation servers.
10. `gen_enable_attention_dp`: `true` or `false` to enable attention DP for generation servers.
11. `gen_gpu_memory_fraction`: GPU memory fraction for generation servers.
12. `concurrency_list`: A space-separated list of concurrencies to test (e.g., "1 2 4 8").
13. `sub_file`: A subdirectory name for logs.

### `gen_yaml.py`

This Python script generates the `config.yaml` file that configures the `trtllm-serve` application. It reads SLURM environment variables (`SLURM_JOB_NODELIST`, `SLURM_TASKS_PER_NODE`) to distribute workers across nodes.

**Usage:**

The script is called from within `disaggr_torch.slurm`. It takes numerous arguments to define the model, parallelism, and server configurations.

### `start_worker.sh`

This script starts a `trtllm-serve disaggregated_mpi_worker`. It is launched by `srun` from the `disaggr_torch.slurm` script on all allocated nodes.

**Arguments:**

1.  `config_file`: Path to the `config.yaml` file.
2.  `enable_pdl`: `true` or `false`.
3.  `ctx_gpus`: Number of GPUs used for the context phase.
4.  `work_dir`: (Optional) Directory to store nsys profiling output.

### `run_benchmark.sh`

This script orchestrates the execution of the benchmark client. It waits for the `config.yaml` to be created and for the server's `/health` endpoint to respond, then it runs the benchmark.

**Arguments:**

1.  `isl`: Input sequence length.
2.  `osl`: Output sequence length.
3.  `multi_round`: Number of rounds for the benchmark.
4.  `model_name`: Name of the model being benchmarked.
5.  `concurrency_list`: Space-separated list of concurrencies.
6.  `streaming`: `true` or `false`.
7.  `log_path`: Path to the log directory.

## Workflow

1.  Make sure that SLURM parameters are correctly set in `disaggr_torch.slurm`.
2.  The user runs `./submit.sh`.
3.  `submit.sh` submits one or more jobs to SLURM by calling `sbatch disaggr_torch.slurm` with different parameters.
4.  For each job, SLURM allocates resources and runs `disaggr_torch.slurm`.
5.  `disaggr_torch.slurm` runs `gen_yaml.py` to create a `config.yaml`.
6.  `disaggr_torch.slurm` uses `srun` to launch `start_worker.sh` on all nodes, starting the MPI workers.
7.  `disaggr_torch.slurm` starts the main `trtllm-serve` process.
8.  `disaggr_torch.slurm` runs `run_benchmark.sh` which waits for the server to be ready.
9.  `run_benchmark.sh` executes the benchmark for each concurrency level specified.
10.  After the benchmark, `run_benchmark.sh` and `disaggr_torch.slurm` attempt to kill the server and worker processes.
11. Logs for each run are stored in a subdirectory specified by the `sub_file` parameter.

Commit message:

[None][chore] update disagg readme and scripts for pipeline parallelism (#6875)
Signed-off-by: raayandhar <rdhar@nvidia.com>

examples/disaggregated/slurm/benchmark/README.md, after:

# Disaggregated Inference Benchmark Scripts

This directory contains scripts to run disaggregated inference benchmarks using TensorRT-LLM and SLURM.

## Overview

The benchmarking process is orchestrated through a set of shell scripts and a Python script that work together:

1.  `submit.sh`: The main entry point for submitting benchmark jobs to SLURM. It runs a parameter sweep by calling `sbatch` with different configurations.
2.  `disaggr_torch.slurm`: The SLURM script that sets up and runs a single benchmark experiment. It launches a container, generates a configuration file, starts the server and workers, and runs the benchmark client.
3.  `gen_yaml.py`: A Python script that generates the `config.yaml` file needed by `trtllm-serve`. It determines the server and worker configuration based on SLURM environment variables and script arguments.
4.  `start_worker.sh`: A shell script responsible for starting a `trtllm-serve disaggregated_mpi_worker` on each allocated machine.
5.  `run_benchmark.sh`: A shell script that waits for the server to be healthy and then runs the actual benchmark client (`run_benchmark.py`, not included in this directory).

## File Descriptions

### `submit.sh`

This script is used to submit multiple SLURM jobs for running benchmarks with different parameters. It iterates through various configurations and uses `sbatch` to submit `disaggr_torch.slurm` for each one.

**Usage:**

```bash
./submit.sh
```

You can modify the loops in this script to change the parameter space for the benchmark sweep.

### `disaggr_torch.slurm`

This is the core SLURM script for a single benchmark run. It is not meant to be run directly, but rather submitted via `sbatch` (e.g., by `submit.sh`).

It takes the following arguments in order:

1.  `num_ctx_servers`: Number of context servers.
2.  `ctx_tp_size`: Tensor parallel size for context servers.
3.  `ctx_pp_size`: Pipeline parallel size for context servers.
4.  `ctx_batch_size`: Max batch size for context servers.
5.  `ctx_max_num_tokens`: Max number of tokens for context servers.
6.  `ctx_enable_attention_dp`: `true` or `false` to enable attention DP for context servers.
7.  `num_gen_servers`: Number of generation servers.
8.  `gen_tp_size`: Tensor parallel size for generation servers.
9.  `gen_pp_size`: Pipeline parallel size for generation servers.
10. `gen_batch_size`: Max batch size for generation servers.
11. `gen_max_num_tokens`: Max number of tokens for generation servers.
12. `gen_enable_attention_dp`: `true` or `false` to enable attention DP for generation servers.
13. `gen_gpu_memory_fraction`: GPU memory fraction for generation servers.
14. `eplb_num_slots`: Number of slots for eplb.
15. `mtp_size`: Number of nextn layers for MTP.
16. `concurrency`: Concurrency level for benchmarking.
17. `isl`: Input sequence length.
18. `osl`: Output sequence length.
19. `multi_round`: Number of rounds for the benchmark.
20. `streaming`: `true` or `false` for streaming mode.
21. `container_image`: Container image to use.
22. `mounts`: Container mounts.
23. `workdir`: Working directory.
24. `model_dir`: Model directory path.
25. `trtllm_repo`: TensorRT-LLM repository path.

### `gen_yaml.py`

This Python script generates the `config.yaml` file that configures the `trtllm-serve` application. It reads SLURM environment variables (`SLURM_JOB_NODELIST`, `SLURM_TASKS_PER_NODE`) to distribute workers across nodes.

**Usage:**

The script is called from within `disaggr_torch.slurm`. It takes numerous arguments to define the model, parallelism, and server configurations.

### `start_worker.sh`

This script starts a `trtllm-serve disaggregated_mpi_worker`. It is launched by `srun` from the `disaggr_torch.slurm` script on all allocated nodes.

**Arguments:**

1.  `config_file`: Path to the `config.yaml` file.
2.  `enable_pdl`: `true` or `false`.
3.  `ctx_gpus`: Number of GPUs used for the context phase.
4.  `work_dir`: (Optional) Directory to store nsys profiling output.

### `run_benchmark.sh`

This script orchestrates the execution of the benchmark client. It waits for the `config.yaml` to be created and for the server's `/health` endpoint to respond, then it runs the benchmark.

**Arguments:**

1.  `isl`: Input sequence length.
2.  `osl`: Output sequence length.
3.  `multi_round`: Number of rounds for the benchmark.
4.  `model_name`: Name of the model being benchmarked.
5.  `concurrency_list`: Space-separated list of concurrencies.
6.  `streaming`: `true` or `false`.
7.  `log_path`: Path to the log directory.

## Workflow

1.  Make sure that SLURM parameters are correctly set in `disaggr_torch.slurm`.
2.  The user runs `./submit.sh`.
3.  `submit.sh` submits one or more jobs to SLURM by calling `sbatch disaggr_torch.slurm` with different parameters.
4.  For each job, SLURM allocates resources and runs `disaggr_torch.slurm`.
5.  `disaggr_torch.slurm` runs `gen_yaml.py` to create a `config.yaml`.
6.  `disaggr_torch.slurm` uses `srun` to launch `start_worker.sh` on all nodes, starting the MPI workers.
7.  `disaggr_torch.slurm` starts the main `trtllm-serve` process.
8.  `disaggr_torch.slurm` runs `run_benchmark.sh` which waits for the server to be ready.
9.  `run_benchmark.sh` executes the benchmark for each concurrency level specified.
10. After the benchmark, `run_benchmark.sh` and `disaggr_torch.slurm` attempt to kill the server and worker processes.
11. Logs for each run are stored in a subdirectory specified by the `sub_file` parameter.
